docs/UseCase-ParentChildProjects.md, before:

# Parent Child Projects
It is very easy to clone a project in Octopus Deploy.  However, once that is done, keeping the child project's process in sync with the parent project is very painful.  You have to manually go into each child project and update it.  The space cloner script was designed with this use case in mind. 

Please refer to the [how it works page](HowItWorks.md#what-will-it-clone) to get a full list of items cloned and not cloned.

## Runbooks

Right now the runbook clone is very simple.  You tell it to sync the runbooks or you tell it to skip the runbooks.  

# Example - Parent / Child Projects

This example is syncing the parent project in the same space.  

Please refer to the [Parameter reference page](ParameterReference.md) for more details on the parameters.

Options:
- `OverwriteExistingVariables` - set to `false` to keep the differences preserved.  Any new variable found will be added still.
- `AddAdditionalVariableValuesOnExistingVariableSets` - set to `True` to add new variables values found for the same variable name.  
- `OverwriteExistingCustomStepTemplates` - Set to `false` as its the same space instance and this makes no sense to do.
- `OverwriteExistingLifecyclesPhases` - Set to `false` as its the same space on the same instance and this makes no sense to do.

```PowerShell
CloneSpace.ps1 -SourceOctopusUrl "https://instance1.yoursite.com" `
    -SourceOctopusApiKey "SOME KEY" `
    -SourceSpaceName "My Space Name" `
    -DestinationOctopusUrl "https://instance1.yoursite.com" `
    -DestinationOctopusApiKey "My Key" `
    -DestinationSpaceName "My Space Name" `        
    -ParentProjectName "Redgate - Feature Branch Example" `
    -ChildProjectsToSync "Redgate - Child*" `   
    -OverwriteExistingVariables "false" `
    -AddAdditionalVariableValuesOnExistingVariableSets "true" `
    -OverwriteExistingCustomStepTemplates "false" `
    -OverwriteExistingLifecyclesPhases "false"
```

Commit message:

Closes #15 - Channel version rules are now being cloned

docs/UseCase-ParentChildProjects.md, after:

# Parent Child Projects
It is very easy to clone a project in Octopus Deploy.  However, once that is done, keeping the child project's process in sync with the parent project is very painful.  You have to manually go into each child project and update it.  The space cloner script was designed with this use case in mind. 

Please refer to the [how it works page](HowItWorks.md#what-will-it-clone) to get a full list of items cloned and not cloned.

## Runbooks

Right now the runbook clone is very simple.  You tell it to sync the runbooks or you tell it to skip the runbooks.  

# Example - Parent / Child Projects

This example is syncing the parent project in the same space.  

Please refer to the [Parameter reference page](ParameterReference.md) for more details on the parameters.

Options:
- `OverwriteExistingVariables` - set to `false` to keep the differences preserved.  Any new variable found will be added still.
- `AddAdditionalVariableValuesOnExistingVariableSets` - set to `True` to add new variables values found for the same variable name.  
- `OverwriteExistingCustomStepTemplates` - Set to `false` as its the same space instance and this makes no sense to rune.
- `OverwriteExistingLifecyclesPhases` - Set to `false` as its the same space on the same instance and this makes no sense to run.
- `CloneProjectChannelRules` - set to `false` as its the same space on the same instance and this makes no sense to rune.
- `CloneTeamUserRoleScoping` - set to `false` as its the same space on the same instance and this makes no sense to run.

```PowerShell
CloneSpace.ps1 -SourceOctopusUrl "https://instance1.yoursite.com" `
    -SourceOctopusApiKey "SOME KEY" `
    -SourceSpaceName "My Space Name" `
    -DestinationOctopusUrl "https://instance1.yoursite.com" `
    -DestinationOctopusApiKey "My Key" `
    -DestinationSpaceName "My Space Name" `        
    -ParentProjectName "Redgate - Feature Branch Example" `
    -ChildProjectsToSync "Redgate - Child*" `   
    -OverwriteExistingVariables "false" `
    -AddAdditionalVariableValuesOnExistingVariableSets "true" `
    -OverwriteExistingCustomStepTemplates "false" `
    -OverwriteExistingLifecyclesPhases "false"
```
